1. Guilds can have a guild bank from the beggining, but they can't store mana there. In order to do so, they must craft a Mana Bank, which is an entity that lore wise can store mana. This is a big team effort that separates consolidated guilds from new ones. In the Mana Bank, members of the guild can store as much mana as they want.
2. Guilds can have TERRITORY in which they can build, collect resources, etc. Here, they can do pretty much anything they want. (There's a piece of land that is incredibly difficult to conquer, meant as a sanctuary, where there's little reward for doing so). [CHANGE how area FactionGroup (Contested, Alliance, Horde, Sanctuary) display in-game. In fact, make a custom pop up text that gives the name of the guild that owns the territory. Default to contested].
3. Buildings can be built by the guild leader. There are levels of progression for guilds (T1, T2, ..., Tn) that allow them to build more complex stuff, such as Transports or advantageous structures. Whatever they build, they must stick to an architectural style based on the different cultures of Metis. The default architectural style of the guild depends on the city where the guild was founded (if done in human zone, human architecture, if done in orcish zone, orcish architecture, ...). They can change their style if they manage to hire an architect from one of those zones. These are hard to get rewards. (Fun idea: Statue of the leader. This would be a gameobject that changes appearance based on the look of the guild leader, apply it a stone texture and put it on a pedestal).
4. Transports. Guilds have the ability to construct transports, such as boats, trains or even skysailers. They need to manually place the waypoints and collect a shit ton of resources in order to build it, but then it's a permanent addition (unless some conquers it and decides to destroy it). These transports have fixed routes, but can be started or stopped at will.
5. Group mounts. Vehicles of up to 8 passengers. They can be destroyed and cost resources to make.