Origin: child with a cruel upbringing that has a lot of visions/haluzinations and has trouble distinguishing reality. When a folding occurs, she is empowered with an unusual amount of ether and starts projecting her visions into reality. This fuels her belief in then and encourages her to change reality. She eventually recognizes the truth about magic, that it's a manifestation of the vessel's beliefs. She comes to the conclusion that there's nothing really that different about magic from reality, and that both are an extension of the only thing that she truly knows exists: her. This justifies everything she does, as everything is just a figment of her imagination she can change anything as she sees fit. 

At the moment of the merging of the planes, she becomes one with an essence of magic, becoming a chimera in the process. Her determination makes her incredibly powerful, and she casts all her doubts away into everything she doesn't want to be, her actual self. The chimera becomes the superego and the shadow, but the ego survives as the manifestation of all her doubts and weaknesses. Weak, old, ugly, crippled, earthbound, caring for the real world and seemingly unable to act. This version of herself, named after an anagram of her name, eventually evolves to face the chimera and defend reality as it is.
The chimera (A) can cast her other version (B) away, but she cannot destroy her, her doubts, her vulnerabilities.

B starts out as a pathetic and adhamed little hag, but sfter interacting with the players she starts her journey to protect the world she values. She gathers ether, trains and humbly learns everything the world tries to teach her until she overcomes some of her issues.

A also evolves in parallel to B, but in the other direction. Before remaking reality, she goes on a journey to find something that can disprove her belief. She is presented with oportunities to care about the world and others, but she willingly rejects them and refuses to attach herself to anything other than herself. She feels, in a way, like reality is testing her resolve. For instance, once she is met with a child that is pretty much like she was as a kid, but after taking care of him for a bit with superficial presents and things she wanted but couldn't have (like her imaginary friends being real), she remembers her belief that only she exists, her eyes go hollow and leaves immediately. 
The journey ends upon her finding something that deeply affects her emotionaly.

