Core Beliefs: Metko, the Crafter, is the Demiurge, a great crafter/gardener that carefully created the world and the stars. It is considered the pinnacle of all creation, and their followers thrive to create something as beautiful and perfect as Mekto did. Metkonists consider their work a form of divine expression, be it crafting, fighting, creating a piece of art, etc. They value beauty and function above all else. They believe that through their creations, they channel the essence of Metko. Their biggest sins are to purposefully create something that diminishes the beauty or function of creation, and also sloth and procrastination.

Afterlife: They believe that when they die, they are judged and reformed into something equivalent as the beauty and function of their best work, by the laws of the Universe that Metko set. Ex: If you created something that is practical and beautiful, you go back to nature, the original creation, and experience exthasis, as you are then perfect. If you created something that is beautiful, but that serves no other function, you become something man-made and artsy, like a painting, or a song, and experience beauty, but no satisfaction in being useful to the everything. If you create something practical, but plain or ugly, you become a tool, or a building. Your satisfaction is partial, only feeling useful, but ugly, like you don't really belong in creation. If you create something awful, plain, or straight up nothing, you become exactly that, set to experience what that evokes for eternity. 

Deities: Metko is an enigmatic deity, who nobody can claim to know, but his work is apparent anywhere you look at. It does not get involved with its creation after having finished his work, as it is already perfect and as should be. It is not merciful or cruel, but fair to all creation. 

Practices: The religion emphasizes meticulous craftsmanship, invention, creativity. Temples are grand workshops where artisans and artists gather to create, and divine blessings are sought for inspiration and mastery of their craft.